hundreds of applicants Brave the cold at
the Maharishi diand University in the
northern Indian state of harana they're
here to meet Israeli recruiters looking
to fill urgent labor shortages Mahesh
Kumar from Rajasthan is one of them he
studied to be a teacher but now works as
a
Mason the children will have a brighter
future they'll be able to get better
education and progress in life when
there's extra money the family will also
do better in gaziabad utar Pradesh Arvin
chaan is waiting for news the ti L was
told he can make five times his current
income of $300 a month in
Israel I want to make more money
whatever I earn here it's all spent on
food and living expenses I can't save
anything the Indian government has
defended its decision to allow workers
to go to Israel which it says is under
an agreement finalized in May last year
labor laws in Israel are very strict
robust uh it's an oecd country so
therefore labor laws are such that it
provides for protection of Migrant
rights labor rights uh on our part of
course we are very conscious of our
responsibility to give provide security
and safe safety to our people who are
abroad Israel once employed tens of
thousands of Palestinians to work across
a number of sectors but tensions after
the Hamas attack on October 7th and the
subsequent war on Gaza has seen
Palestinians being shut out of their
jobs it's this labor shortage that
Israel is looking to South Asia to fill
not just in India but here in Sri Lanka
where people are increasingly desperate
to escape the economic hardships the
foreign employment Bureau is working to
short list 10,000 people to work in
agriculture jobs 25-year-old madushanka
Sarat is busy preparing the family Patty
fields in gal in central Sri Lanka he
says he was shortlisted for a job in
Israel a month
ago everything is so expensive now
that's the main reason for me to go for
pad cultivation it's difficult to buy
fertilizer and agrochemicals and there's
very little
profit Sri Lanka's economic crisis has
seen tens of thousands of people head
abroad in search of better prospects but
rights groups have criticized the
decision to send workers to a country at
War sending workers abroad has become an
easy answer to the unemployment crisis
which is happening here and an easy
answer which the government is going
forward without without uh taking on
their responsibility to protect our
workers whom they sending abroad to
bring back foreign revenues despite
these concerns madush shanka and
thousands like him say a job in Israel
will help them improve their lives Mel
Fernandez AL jazer galaha Central
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al
jaaz